MK:
====
One suggestion to structure the related literature section by stating the (at some time) current optimand/theory, the conflicting empirical evidence (paradoxes) that come along and which reaction it triggered -- kind of a stimulus-response story.

Once upon a time (average) in the 17th century on planet Earth ...

Rational choice codified as using expectation values as the optimand EVT

Stimulus : St. Petersburg lottery comes along

EE-Response to SPL: separation from earlier developments after going back to very first conflicting "evidence" of St. Petersburg lottery -> change optimand to a meaningful observable for typical individual DMs

Response to SPL : EUT, i.e. adjust the optimand by introducing utility by keeping its mathematical structure of an expectation value of something intact

Stimulus : Allais paradox, Ellsberg etc.

Response : Bifurcation/separation of K&T "Heuristics & Biases" research programme in behavioural econ from broader bounded rationality programme

Respone by K&T : PT, i.e. adjust the optimand by introducing PW & value function by keeping its mathematical structure of an expectation value of something

Stimulus : Stochastic Dominance issues

Respone by K&T : CPT, i.e. rank-dependent cumulative probabilities, aka special form of PW

Briefly survey what K&T camp has done in the meantime in relation to PW, eg. parameter estimation/calibration

Response by Bounded Rationality Camp (incl. Simon, Gigerenzer, Selten, etc): explore non-optimising behaviour (eg. satisfycing), interpret evidence as adaptive heuristics

Briefly survey what BR camp has done in the meantime related to PW (description-experience gap related to PW)

EE-Response to PW: statistical explanation due to different models of uncertainty



OP:
===
%Tell the story.
-> Many researchers believe PW to be a stable pattern of human behavior. This has been disputed on grounds of poor experimental design and statistical insignificance. Our impression: there is something to this story but the terms of the debate are not well defined, and a deeper understanding is needed to predict with more confidence what effect will be observed in a given situation.

-> We begin with a brief review of the developments in decision theory that led up to cumulative prospect theory. Next, we review existing critiques of CPT, and finally, we add our own critique, which emerges from ergodicity economics. Our critique is aimed at a conceptual element that entered decision theory much earlier than the elements that are more typically critiqued. Specifically, EE rejects the implicit assumption that the expected value of some quantity-- a linear average over the ensemble of possible future values -- is relevant to a decision maker. We insist on physically relevant quantities, which forces us to consider carefully the physical situation of an individual. The obviates the needs for psychological explanations: representing the information available to the decision-maker is enough to make testable predictions of probability weighting.
(We could think of something attractive here, called a promise: what will the reader be able to do/understand after reading our manuscript? A: that psychology, which is problematic because it's subjective and makes no predictions, can be thrown out in many cases)


-> Story of the optimand, up to CPT.

-> Critiques of CPT.
p.5 "Only few studies question..." should be a new paragraph because it's the beginning of critiques.

p.5 "Here we offer..." is part of our critique and should go to the end (or the preview at the beginning).

-> Then all the other critiques (pick an order that makes sense).

-> Finally, our critique "Ergodicity economics". This is, to an extent, a repetition of the paragraph 2, which is ok -- it's called "cycling:" keep exposing the same idea repeatedly from slightly different angles. Each time we get back to it, we point out another feature.

============
AA from here
============

This is not so much a skeleton as a collection of notes, so I will simply add my thoughts here rather than work them in above.

1. Purpose

Twofold
- To place our paper within the context of existing literature (to acknowledge similar critiques and to connect with those researchers).
- To explain why our paper is an EE paper.

2. Structure

Both aims require that we tell the story of the development of CPT.

Let's be very explicit about EUT/EE bifurcation at the start, i.e. state that there is a "bifurcation" or "two strands" or similar wording: one which maintains the ensemble average and leads to CPT; and one which replaces it with a time average and produces EE.

At this point, we have no choice but to pick a strand to describe first. At present, we start with the ensemble average strand and finish with the time average strand. I'm ok with that, since it creates a problem-solution narrative

3. Content

However, it is a slightly weird thing to do, in that we must spend a long time telling the reader what we are not doing before we say what we are doing. So the description of EW -> EUT -> (C)PT -> critiques has to be concise.

Therefore, I suggest we purge the text of any recent literature which does not relate to PW, so that we keep this section focused. Probably best to do this exercise first, before writing anything, since it informs what we will write.

One particularly subtle piece of content is...

4. Why is this an EE paper?

Tricky question, since our analysis is independent of the behavioural models with which so much of EE is concerned. We do not, in this paper, propose an alternative behavioural model to one containing an inappropriate ensemble average.

Therefore, we need a clear and simple answer, or else readers will think we are making tenous links to EE to "shoehorn" in references to our work. I share Ole's view above. EE rejects (at leading order) psychological models of human decisions, which start with EUT and lead to CPT. Instead, in EE we start by modelling the external reality to which human decisions are responses. In this paper, that reality is the information available to a DM, e.g. a statement by a DO with no corroborating evidence, a finite sample of observed outcomes, and so on. The EE approach is to ask what a DM can reasonably infer (specifically about the frequencies of different outcomes) from such data, which is precisely what we do in this paper.